design.md, before:

# Design 

Information about the design of the Smartie Sorter 3000 is presented in this document. First, Section 1 provides more information about the name sign present at the top of the Smartie Sorter 3000's mini arcade game enclosure. Thereafter, section 2 provides more information about the Smartie Sorter 3000's colour scheme.

The Smartie Sorter 3000 logo and the colour schemes were created using Affinity Designer. The .afdesign files are available in the [affinity_designer](https://github.com/pieterberg/Smartie-Sorter/tree/main/documentation/design/affinity_designer) folder.

### Table of Contents

- [1. Name Sign](#1-name-sign)
  - [1.1. Digital File](#11-digital-file)
  - [1.2. Enclosure Placement](#12-enclosure-placement)
- [2. Colour Scheme](#2-colour-scheme)
  - [2.1. Enclosure Design](#21-enclosure-design)
  - [2.2. Arcade Game Buttons](#22-arcade-game-buttons)
  - [2.3. Smartie Colours](#23-smartie-colours)
  - [2.4. M\&M Colours](#24-mm-colours)
- [3. Sorting Locations](#3-sorting-locations)
  - [3.1. Smartie Locations](#31-smartie-locations)
  - [3.2. M\&M Locations](#32-mm-locations)

## 1. Name Sign

This section provides more information about the name sign present at the top of the Smartie Sorter 3000's mini arcade game enlcosure.

The "3000" in the Smartie Sorter 3000's name comes from the TCS3200 colour sensor that the Smartie Sorter 3000 uses to determine the Smartie and M&M colours.

The logo was stylized using the Bauhaus 93 typeface.

### 1.1. Digital File

The Smartie Sorter 3000 logo is presented in Figure 1. The logo has 8 slanted stripes that correspond to the 8 Smartie colours, which are presented in Section 2.3. 

<img src="https://github.com/pieterberg/Smartie-Sorter/blob/main/documentation/design/name_sign/name_sign.png" alt="Name sign" width="100%">

Figure 1: The Smartie Sorter 3000 logo used for the name at the top of the mini arcade game enclosure

The [name sign](https://github.com/pieterberg/Smartie-Sorter/tree/main/documentation/design/name_sign) folder contains both a .png version and an .svg version of the Smartie Sorter 3000 logo.

### 1.2. Enclosure Placement

The Smartie Sorter 3000 logo was printed on a 270 mm x 55 mm vinyl sticker and affixed to the Name Sign component.

The Name Sign component is backlit using 12 V LED strips present in the top-section of the mini arcade game enclosure, as documented in [electronics.md](https://github.com/pieterberg/Smartie-Sorter/blob/main/electronics.md).

## 2. Colour Scheme

The colour schemes and hex codes used for the mini arcade game enclosure, arcade game buttons, Smartie chocolates, and M&M chocolates are provided in this section.

### 2.1. Enclosure Design

The Smartie Sorter 3000's mini arcade game enclosure has a brown and white colour scheme, and was painted using brown and white Rust-Oleum spray paint. The colour scheme used for the enclosure is presented in Figure 2.

<img src="https://github.com/pieterberg/Smartie-Sorter/blob/main/documentation/design/colour_scheme/enclosure_colours.png" alt="Enclosure colour scheme" width="70%">

Figure 2: The mini arcade game enclosure's colour scheme

The hex codes used for the enclosure's colour scheme are provided in Table 1.

Table 1: Hex codes for the enclosure's colour scheme

| Enclosure Colours |  Hex code |
|-------------------|:---------:|
| Brown             | `#8D6B3E` |
| White             | `#FFFFFF` |

### 2.2. Arcade Game Buttons

The Smartie Sorter 3000 uses three Sanwa arcade game buttons to control the sorting process.The light-blue arcade game button on the left controls the lighting of the Smartie sorter, while the two white arcade game buttons are used to control the sorting process. When the left white arcade game button is pressed, the sorting process starts, and when the right white arcade game button is pressed, the sorting process stops. The colour scheme used to represent the Sanwa arcade game buttons is presented in Figure 3.

<img src="https://github.com/pieterberg/Smartie-Sorter/blob/main/documentation/design/colour_scheme/button_colours.png" alt="Button colour scheme" width="70%">

Figure 3: The Sanwa arcade game buttons' colour scheme

The hex codes used to represent the blue and white Sanwa arcade game buttons are provided in Table 2.

Table 2: Hex codes for the Sanwa arcade game buttons' colour scheme

| Arcade Button Colours |  Hex code |
|-----------------------|:---------:|
| Blue                  | `#07AEE9` |
| White                 | `#FFFFFF` |

### 2.3. Smartie Colours

There are 8 different Smartie colours, namely: red, orange, yellow, green, blue, mauve, pink, and brown. The colour scheme used by this project to represent the 8 different Smartie colours is presented in Figure 4.

<img src="https://github.com/pieterberg/Smartie-Sorter/blob/main/documentation/design/colour_scheme/smartie_colours.png" alt="Smartie colours" width="70%">

Figure 4: The Smartie chocolates' colour scheme

The hex codes used to represent the Smartie chocolates are provided in Table 3.

Table 3: Hex codes for the Smartie chocolates' colour scheme

| Smartie Colours |  Hex code |
|-----------------|:---------:|
| Red             | `#FF5F5F` |
| Orange          | `#FAA161` |
| Yellow          | `#FFF77D` |
| Green           | `#20BF55` |
| Blue            | `#06ACE9` |
| Mauve           | `#A975FF` |
| Pink            | `#E599FF` |
| Brown           | `#A5703F` |

### 2.4. M&M Colours

There are 6 different M&M colours, namely: red, orange, yellow, green, blue, and brown. The official colour scheme used to represent the different M&M colours is presented in Figure 5.

<img src="https://github.com/pieterberg/Smartie-Sorter/blob/main/documentation/design/colour_scheme/m_and_m_colours.png" alt="M&M colours" width="70%">

Figure 5: The official M&M colour scheme

The hex codes used in official M&M colour scheme are provided in Table 4.

Table 4: Hex codes for the official M&M colour scheme

| Official M&M Colours |  Hex code |
|----------------------|:---------:|
| Red                  | `#C10D0C` |
| Orange               | `#E17324` |
| Yellow               | `#FFD101` |
| Green                | `#25B44B` |
| Blue                 | `#265EAB` |
| Brown                | `#6E4F30` |

## 3. Sorting Locations

Once sorted, the Smarties and M&M's are transferred to the acrylic Sorted Smarties Collector component. The sorted positions of the Smarties and M&M's are presented in this section.

### 3.1. Smartie Locations

The locations of the sorted Smarties in the Sorted Smarties Collector component are similar to their locations in the Smartie chocolates' colour scheme that was presented in Figure 4.
### 3.2. M&M Locations

The locations of the sorted M&M's in the Sorted Smarties Collector component are similar to their locations in the official M&M colour scheme that was presented in Figure 5. Since there are only 6 M&M colours, the final two locations in the Sorted Smarties Collector component are not used when sorting M&M's.

Commit message:

Updated the Enclosure Design section

design.md, after:

# Design 

Information about the design of the Smartie Sorter 3000 is presented in this document. First, Section 1 provides more information about the name sign present at the top of the Smartie Sorter 3000's mini arcade game enclosure. Thereafter, section 2 provides more information about the Smartie Sorter 3000's colour scheme.

The Smartie Sorter 3000 logo and the colour schemes were created using Affinity Designer. The .afdesign files are available in the [affinity_designer](https://github.com/pieterberg/Smartie-Sorter/tree/main/documentation/design/affinity_designer) folder.

### Table of Contents

- [1. Name Sign](#1-name-sign)
  - [1.1. Digital File](#11-digital-file)
  - [1.2. Enclosure Placement](#12-enclosure-placement)
- [2. Colour Scheme](#2-colour-scheme)
  - [2.1. Enclosure Design](#21-enclosure-design)
  - [2.2. Arcade Game Buttons](#22-arcade-game-buttons)
  - [2.3. Smartie Colours](#23-smartie-colours)
  - [2.4. M\&M Colours](#24-mm-colours)
- [3. Sorting Locations](#3-sorting-locations)
  - [3.1. Smartie Locations](#31-smartie-locations)
  - [3.2. M\&M Locations](#32-mm-locations)

## 1. Name Sign

This section provides more information about the name sign present at the top of the Smartie Sorter 3000's mini arcade game enlcosure.

The "3000" in the Smartie Sorter 3000's name comes from the TCS3200 colour sensor that the Smartie Sorter 3000 uses to determine the Smartie and M&M colours.

The logo was stylized using the Bauhaus 93 typeface.

### 1.1. Digital File

The Smartie Sorter 3000 logo is presented in Figure 1. The logo has 8 slanted stripes that correspond to the 8 Smartie colours, which are presented in Section 2.3. 

<img src="https://github.com/pieterberg/Smartie-Sorter/blob/main/documentation/design/name_sign/name_sign.png" alt="Name sign" width="100%">

Figure 1: The Smartie Sorter 3000 logo used for the name at the top of the mini arcade game enclosure

The [name sign](https://github.com/pieterberg/Smartie-Sorter/tree/main/documentation/design/name_sign) folder contains both a .png version and an .svg version of the Smartie Sorter 3000 logo.

### 1.2. Enclosure Placement

The Smartie Sorter 3000 logo was printed on a 270 mm x 55 mm vinyl sticker and affixed to the Name Sign component.

The Name Sign component is backlit using 12 V LED strips present in the top-section of the mini arcade game enclosure, as documented in [electronics.md](https://github.com/pieterberg/Smartie-Sorter/blob/main/electronics.md).

## 2. Colour Scheme

The colour schemes and hex codes used for the mini arcade game enclosure, arcade game buttons, Smartie chocolates, and M&M chocolates are provided in this section.

### 2.1. Enclosure Design

The colour scheme used for the design of the Smartie Sorter 3000's mini arcade game enclosure is presented by Figure 2. The outside surfaces of the mini arcade game enclosure are painted brown while the internal surfaces of the mini arcade game enclosure are painted white.

The brown colour used for the design of the mini arcade game enclosure is based on the Rust-Oleum Painter's Touch Ultra Cover satin Nutmeg paint.

<img src="https://github.com/pieterberg/Smartie-Sorter/blob/main/documentation/design/colour_scheme/enclosure_colours.png" alt="Enclosure colour scheme" width="70%">

Figure 2: The mini arcade game enclosure's colour scheme

The hex codes used for the enclosure's colour scheme are provided in Table 1.

Table 1: Hex codes for the enclosure's colour scheme

| Enclosure Colours |  Hex code |
|-------------------|:---------:|
| Brown             | `#8D6B3E` |
| White             | `#FFFFFF` |

### 2.2. Arcade Game Buttons

The Smartie Sorter 3000 uses three Sanwa arcade game buttons to control the sorting process.The light-blue arcade game button on the left controls the lighting of the Smartie sorter, while the two white arcade game buttons are used to control the sorting process. When the left white arcade game button is pressed, the sorting process starts, and when the right white arcade game button is pressed, the sorting process stops. The colour scheme used to represent the Sanwa arcade game buttons is presented in Figure 3.

<img src="https://github.com/pieterberg/Smartie-Sorter/blob/main/documentation/design/colour_scheme/button_colours.png" alt="Button colour scheme" width="70%">

Figure 3: The Sanwa arcade game buttons' colour scheme

The hex codes used to represent the blue and white Sanwa arcade game buttons are provided in Table 2.

Table 2: Hex codes for the Sanwa arcade game buttons' colour scheme

| Arcade Button Colours |  Hex code |
|-----------------------|:---------:|
| Blue                  | `#07AEE9` |
| White                 | `#FFFFFF` |

### 2.3. Smartie Colours

There are 8 different Smartie colours, namely: red, orange, yellow, green, blue, mauve, pink, and brown. The colour scheme used by this project to represent the 8 different Smartie colours is presented in Figure 4.

<img src="https://github.com/pieterberg/Smartie-Sorter/blob/main/documentation/design/colour_scheme/smartie_colours.png" alt="Smartie colours" width="70%">

Figure 4: The Smartie chocolates' colour scheme

The hex codes used to represent the Smartie chocolates are provided in Table 3.

Table 3: Hex codes for the Smartie chocolates' colour scheme

| Smartie Colours |  Hex code |
|-----------------|:---------:|
| Red             | `#FF5F5F` |
| Orange          | `#FAA161` |
| Yellow          | `#FFF77D` |
| Green           | `#20BF55` |
| Blue            | `#06ACE9` |
| Mauve           | `#A975FF` |
| Pink            | `#E599FF` |
| Brown           | `#A5703F` |

### 2.4. M&M Colours

There are 6 different M&M colours, namely: red, orange, yellow, green, blue, and brown. The official colour scheme used to represent the different M&M colours is presented in Figure 5.

<img src="https://github.com/pieterberg/Smartie-Sorter/blob/main/documentation/design/colour_scheme/m_and_m_colours.png" alt="M&M colours" width="70%">

Figure 5: The official M&M colour scheme

The hex codes used in official M&M colour scheme are provided in Table 4.

Table 4: Hex codes for the official M&M colour scheme

| Official M&M Colours |  Hex code |
|----------------------|:---------:|
| Red                  | `#C10D0C` |
| Orange               | `#E17324` |
| Yellow               | `#FFD101` |
| Green                | `#25B44B` |
| Blue                 | `#265EAB` |
| Brown                | `#6E4F30` |

## 3. Sorting Locations

Once sorted, the Smarties and M&M's are transferred to the acrylic Sorted Smarties Collector component. The sorted positions of the Smarties and M&M's are presented in this section.

### 3.1. Smartie Locations

The locations of the sorted Smarties in the Sorted Smarties Collector component are similar to their locations in the Smartie chocolates' colour scheme that was presented in Figure 4.
### 3.2. M&M Locations

The locations of the sorted M&M's in the Sorted Smarties Collector component are similar to their locations in the official M&M colour scheme that was presented in Figure 5. Since there are only 6 M&M colours, the final two locations in the Sorted Smarties Collector component are not used when sorting M&M's.
