sorting.md, before:

# Sorting

### Table of Contents

## 1. Sorting Procedure

## 2. Codes

The Smartie Sorter 3000 can operate in 4 different modes.

The different modes are selected by entering different codes using the arcade game buttons. Section 2.1. outlines the procedure for entering a code and Section 2.2. provides the codes for the different operating modes.

### 2.1. Procedure

The procedure to enter a code is as follows:

1. Press the blue arcade game button
2. Enter a combination of white button presses
3. Press the blue arcade game button again

The Smartie Sorter 3000 will enter the selected mode if a valid combination of white button presses was entered. The built-in LEDs will flash a certain number of times, corresponding to the mode number, to confirm that the code has been accepted.

### 2.2. Combinations

Table 1 provides the combinations for selecting the different operating modes.

For the combinations, `L` refers to a press of the left white arcade game button and `R` refers to a press of the right white arcade game button.

A numerical system is used to keep track of the button presses. Presses of the left white arcade game button (`L`) count +1 point while presses of the right white arcade game button (`R`) count +10 points. The selected operating mode is then entered based on the total points score.

Table 1: Combinations for entering the different operating modes

| Mode number | Combination     | Numeric Value | Description                       |
|:-----------:|-----------------|:-------------:|-----------------------------------|
|      -      | `L`             |       1       | Display the active chocolate mode |
|      -      | `R`             |       10      | Display the active sorting mode   |
|      1      | `L L R L L R L` |       25      | Enter the Smartie chocolate mode  |
|      2      | `L R L L R L R` |       34      | Enter the M&M chocolate mode      |
|      3      | `R L R R R L R` |       52      | Enter the uncollated sorting mode |
|      4      | `R R L R L L R` |       43      | Enter the collated sorting mode   |

Commit message:

Added a section about the process states

sorting.md, after:

# Sorting

### Table of Contents

## 1. Sorting Procedure

## 2. Process States

There are 2 different states and 4 different modes that the Smartie Sorter 3000 can be in:

- `SORTING_STATE`
- `CHOCOLATE_MODE`
- `SORTING_MODE`

Section 2.1 provides more information about the different states while Section 2.2 provides the default values of the states.

### 2.1. Enumerated Values

### 2.2. Default Values

The default values when powering on the Smartie Sorter 3000 are given by Table 1.

Table 1: Default values

| State            | Default Value |
|------------------|---------------|
| `SORTING_STATE`  | NOT_SORTING   |
| `CHOCOLATE_MODE` | SMARTIES      |
| `SORTING_MODE`   | UNCOLLATED    |

## 3. Codes

The Smartie Sorter 3000 can operate in 4 different modes.

The different modes are selected by entering different codes using the arcade game buttons. Section 3.1 outlines the procedure for entering a code and Section 3.2 provides the codes for the different operating modes.

### 3.1. Procedure

The procedure to enter a code is as follows:

1. Press the blue arcade game button
2. Enter a combination of white button presses
3. Press the blue arcade game button again

The Smartie Sorter 3000 will enter the selected mode if a valid combination of white button presses was entered. The built-in LEDs will flash a certain number of times, corresponding to the mode number, to confirm that the code has been accepted.

### 3.2. Combinations

Table 2 provides the combinations for selecting the different operating modes.

For the combinations, `L` refers to a press of the left white arcade game button and `R` refers to a press of the right white arcade game button.

A numerical system is used to keep track of the button presses. Presses of the left white arcade game button (`L`) count +1 point while presses of the right white arcade game button (`R`) count +10 points. The selected operating mode is then entered based on the total points score.

Table 2: Combinations for entering the different operating modes

| Mode number | Combination     | Numeric Value | Description                       |
|:-----------:|-----------------|:-------------:|-----------------------------------|
|      -      | `L`             |       1       | Display the active chocolate mode |
|      -      | `R`             |       10      | Display the active sorting mode   |
|      1      | `L L R L L R L` |       25      | Enter the Smartie chocolate mode  |
|      2      | `L R L L R L R` |       34      | Enter the M&M chocolate mode      |
|      3      | `R L R R R L R` |       52      | Enter the uncollated sorting mode |
|      4      | `R R L R L L R` |       43      | Enter the collated sorting mode   |
