documentation/design.md, before:

# Design 

Information about the design of the Smartie Sorter 3000 is presented in this document. First, Section 1 provides more information about the name sign present at the top of the Smartie Sorter 3000's mini arcade game enclosure. Thereafter, Section 2 provides more information about the Smartie Sorter 3000's colour scheme. Finally, Section 3 provides more information about the sorted Smartie and M&M locations.

The Smartie Sorter 3000 logo, colour scheme, and sorted Smartie and M&M locations were created using Affinity Designer. The `.afdesign` files are available in the [affinity_designer](https://github.com/pieterberg/Smartie-Sorter/tree/main/assets/design/affinity_designer) folder.

### Table of Contents

- [1. Name Sign](#1-name-sign)
  - [1.1. Digital File](#11-digital-file)
  - [1.2. Enclosure Placement](#12-enclosure-placement)
- [2. Colour Scheme](#2-colour-scheme)
  - [2.1. Enclosure Design](#21-enclosure-design)
  - [2.2. Arcade Game Buttons](#22-arcade-game-buttons)
  - [2.3. Smartie Colours](#23-smartie-colours)
  - [2.4. M\&M Colours](#24-mm-colours)
- [3. Sorting Locations](#3-sorting-locations)
  - [3.1. Smartie Locations](#31-smartie-locations)
  - [3.2. M\&M Locations](#32-mm-locations)

## 1. Name Sign

This section provides more information about the name sign present at the top of the Smartie Sorter 3000's mini arcade game enclosure.

The "3000" in the Smartie Sorter 3000's name comes from the TCS3200 colour sensor that the Smartie Sorter 3000 uses to determine the Smartie and M&M colours.

The logo was stylized using the Bauhaus 93 typeface.

### 1.1. Digital File

The Smartie Sorter 3000 logo is presented in Figure 1. The logo has 8 slanted stripes that correspond to the 8 Smartie colours, which are presented in Section 2.3. 

<img src="https://github.com/pieterberg/Smartie-Sorter/blob/main/assets/design/name_sign/name_sign.png" alt="Name sign" width="100%">

Figure 1: The Smartie Sorter 3000 logo used for the name at the top of the mini arcade game enclosure

The [name sign](https://github.com/pieterberg/Smartie-Sorter/tree/main/assets/design/name_sign) folder contains both a .png version and an .svg version of the Smartie Sorter 3000 logo.

### 1.2. Enclosure Placement

The Smartie Sorter 3000 logo was printed on a 270 mm x 55 mm vinyl sticker and affixed to the Name Sign component.

The Name Sign component is backlit using 12 V LED strips present in the top-section of the mini arcade game enclosure, as documented in [electronics.md](https://github.com/pieterberg/Smartie-Sorter/blob/main/documentation/electronics.md).

## 2. Colour Scheme

This section presents the colour schemes used to design the Smartie Sorter 3000. The colour schemes and hex codes of the mini arcade game enclosure, arcade game buttons, Smartie chocolates, and M&M chocolates are provided.

The [colour_scheme](https://github.com/pieterberg/Smartie-Sorter/tree/main/assets/design/colour_scheme) folder contains .png versions of the colour schemes.

### 2.1. Enclosure Design

The colour scheme used for the design of the mini arcade game enclosure is presented by Figure 2. The outside surfaces of the mini arcade game enclosure are painted brown while the internal surfaces of the mini arcade game enclosure are painted white.

The brown colour used for the design of the mini arcade game enclosure is based on the Rust-Oleum Painter's Touch Ultra Cover satin Nutmeg paint.

<img src="https://github.com/pieterberg/Smartie-Sorter/blob/main/assets/design/colour_scheme/enclosure_colours.png" alt="Enclosure colour scheme" width="70%">

Figure 2: The mini arcade game enclosure's colour scheme

The hex codes for the mini arcade game enclosure's colour scheme are provided in Table 1.

Table 1: The hex codes for the mini arcade game enclosure's colour scheme

| Enclosure Colours |  Hex code |
|-------------------|:---------:|
| Brown             | `#8D6B3E` |
| White             | `#FFFFFF` |

### 2.2. Arcade Game Buttons

The Smartie Sorter 3000 uses three Sanwa arcade game buttons to control the sorting process: one light-blue arcade game button and two white arcade game buttons. Figure 3 presents the colour scheme for the selected Sanwa arcade game buttons.

<img src="https://github.com/pieterberg/Smartie-Sorter/blob/main/assets/design/colour_scheme/button_colours.png" alt="Button colour scheme" width="70%">

Figure 3: The Sanwa arcade game buttons' colour scheme

The hex codes for the Sanwa arcade game buttons' colour scheme are provided in Table 2.

Table 2: The hex codes for the Sanwa arcade game buttons' colour scheme

| Arcade Button Colours |  Hex code |
|-----------------------|:---------:|
| Blue                  | `#07AEE9` |
| White                 | `#FFFFFF` |

More information about the arcade game buttons and how they control the sorting process is given in [sorting.md](https://github.com/pieterberg/Smartie-Sorter/blob/main/documentation/sorting.md).

### 2.3. Smartie Colours

There are 8 different Smartie colours, namely: red, orange, yellow, green, blue, mauve, pink, and brown. Figure 4 presents the Smarties colour scheme.

<img src="https://github.com/pieterberg/Smartie-Sorter/blob/main/assets/design/colour_scheme/smartie_colours.png" alt="Smartie colours" width="70%">

Figure 4: The Smarties colour scheme

The hex codes for the Smarties colour scheme are provided in Table 3.

Table 3: The hex codes for the Smarties colour scheme

| Smartie Colours |  Hex code |
|-----------------|:---------:|
| Red             | `#FF5F5F` |
| Orange          | `#FAA161` |
| Yellow          | `#FFF77D` |
| Green           | `#20BF55` |
| Blue            | `#06ACE9` |
| Mauve           | `#A975FF` |
| Pink            | `#E599FF` |
| Brown           | `#A5703F` |

### 2.4. M&M Colours

There are 6 different M&M colours, namely: red, orange, yellow, green, blue, and brown. Figure 5 presents the official M&M colour scheme.

<img src="https://github.com/pieterberg/Smartie-Sorter/blob/main/assets/design/colour_scheme/m_and_m_colours.png" alt="M&M colours" width="70%">

Figure 5: The official M&M colour scheme

The hex codes for the official M&M colour scheme are provided in Table 4.

Table 4: The hex codes for the official M&M colour scheme

| Official M&M Colours |  Hex code |
|----------------------|:---------:|
| Red                  | `#C10D0C` |
| Orange               | `#E17324` |
| Yellow               | `#FFD101` |
| Green                | `#25B44B` |
| Blue                 | `#265EAB` |
| Brown                | `#6E4F30` |

## 3. Sorting Locations

Once sorted, the Smarties and M&M's are transferred to the acrylic Sorted Smarties Collector component. The Sorted Smarties Collector component contains 8 compartments, and the locations of the sorted Smarties and M&M's are dependent on the value of the `SORTING_MODE` property. 

The Smartie Sorter 3000 can operate in 2 different sorting modes, as shown by Table 5.

Table 5: Sorting modes and their descriptions

| Sorting Mode | Description                                                                          |
|--------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Uncollated   | Smarties and M&M's of the same colour are grouped together in the same compartment.  |
| Collated     | Consecutive Smarties and M&Ms of the same colour end up in consecutive compartments. |

More information about setting and viewing the value of the `SORTING_MODE` property is provided in [sorting.md](sorting.md).

### 3.1. Smartie Locations

The locations of the sorted Smarties in the Sorted Smarties Collector component are similar to their locations in the Smartie chocolates' colour scheme that was presented in Figure 4.

<img src="../assets/design/sorting_locations/smartie_locations.png" alt="Smartie Locations" width="70%">

Figure 6: The sorted Smartie locations

### 3.2. M&M Locations

The locations of the sorted M&M's in the Sorted Smarties Collector component are similar to their locations in the official M&M colour scheme that was presented in Figure 5. Since there are only 6 M&M colours, the final two locations in the Sorted Smarties Collector component are not used when sorting M&M's.

<img src="../assets/design/sorting_locations/m_and_m_locations.png" alt="M&M Locations" width="70%">

Figure 7: The sorted M&M locations

Commit message:

Updated the Sorting Locations content

documentation/design.md, after:

# Design 

Information about the design of the Smartie Sorter 3000 is presented in this document. First, Section 1 provides more information about the name sign present at the top of the Smartie Sorter 3000's mini arcade game enclosure. Thereafter, Section 2 provides more information about the Smartie Sorter 3000's colour scheme. Finally, Section 3 provides more information about the sorted Smartie and M&M locations.

The Smartie Sorter 3000 logo, colour scheme, and sorted Smartie and M&M locations were created using Affinity Designer. The `.afdesign` files are available in the [affinity_designer](https://github.com/pieterberg/Smartie-Sorter/tree/main/assets/design/affinity_designer) folder.

### Table of Contents

- [1. Name Sign](#1-name-sign)
  - [1.1. Digital File](#11-digital-file)
  - [1.2. Enclosure Placement](#12-enclosure-placement)
- [2. Colour Scheme](#2-colour-scheme)
  - [2.1. Enclosure Design](#21-enclosure-design)
  - [2.2. Arcade Game Buttons](#22-arcade-game-buttons)
  - [2.3. Smartie Colours](#23-smartie-colours)
  - [2.4. M\&M Colours](#24-mm-colours)
- [3. Sorting Locations](#3-sorting-locations)
  - [3.1. Smartie Locations](#31-smartie-locations)
  - [3.2. M\&M Locations](#32-mm-locations)

## 1. Name Sign

This section provides more information about the name sign present at the top of the Smartie Sorter 3000's mini arcade game enclosure.

The "3000" in the Smartie Sorter 3000's name comes from the TCS3200 colour sensor that the Smartie Sorter 3000 uses to determine the Smartie and M&M colours.

The logo was stylized using the Bauhaus 93 typeface.

### 1.1. Digital File

The Smartie Sorter 3000 logo is presented in Figure 1. The logo has 8 slanted stripes that correspond to the 8 Smartie colours, which are presented in Section 2.3. 

<img src="https://github.com/pieterberg/Smartie-Sorter/blob/main/assets/design/name_sign/name_sign.png" alt="Name sign" width="100%">

Figure 1: The Smartie Sorter 3000 logo used for the name at the top of the mini arcade game enclosure

The [name sign](https://github.com/pieterberg/Smartie-Sorter/tree/main/assets/design/name_sign) folder contains both a `.png` version and an `.svg` version of the Smartie Sorter 3000 logo.

### 1.2. Enclosure Placement

The Smartie Sorter 3000 logo was printed on a 270 mm x 55 mm vinyl sticker and affixed to the Name Sign component.

The Name Sign component is backlit using 12 V LED strips present in the top-section of the mini arcade game enclosure, as documented in [electronics.md](https://github.com/pieterberg/Smartie-Sorter/blob/main/documentation/electronics.md).

## 2. Colour Scheme

This section presents the colour schemes used to design the Smartie Sorter 3000. The colour schemes and hex codes of the mini arcade game enclosure, arcade game buttons, Smartie chocolates, and M&M chocolates are provided.

The [colour_scheme](https://github.com/pieterberg/Smartie-Sorter/tree/main/assets/design/colour_scheme) folder contains .png versions of the colour schemes.

### 2.1. Enclosure Design

The colour scheme used for the design of the mini arcade game enclosure is presented by Figure 2. The outside surfaces of the mini arcade game enclosure are painted brown while the internal surfaces of the mini arcade game enclosure are painted white.

The brown colour used for the design of the mini arcade game enclosure is based on the Rust-Oleum Painter's Touch Ultra Cover satin Nutmeg paint.

<img src="https://github.com/pieterberg/Smartie-Sorter/blob/main/assets/design/colour_scheme/enclosure_colours.png" alt="Enclosure colour scheme" width="70%">

Figure 2: The mini arcade game enclosure's colour scheme

The hex codes for the mini arcade game enclosure's colour scheme are provided in Table 1.

Table 1: The hex codes for the mini arcade game enclosure's colour scheme

| Enclosure Colours |  Hex code |
|-------------------|:---------:|
| Brown             | `#8D6B3E` |
| White             | `#FFFFFF` |

### 2.2. Arcade Game Buttons

The Smartie Sorter 3000 uses three Sanwa arcade game buttons to control the sorting process: one light-blue arcade game button and two white arcade game buttons. Figure 3 presents the colour scheme for the selected Sanwa arcade game buttons.

<img src="https://github.com/pieterberg/Smartie-Sorter/blob/main/assets/design/colour_scheme/button_colours.png" alt="Button colour scheme" width="70%">

Figure 3: The Sanwa arcade game buttons' colour scheme

The hex codes for the Sanwa arcade game buttons' colour scheme are provided in Table 2.

Table 2: The hex codes for the Sanwa arcade game buttons' colour scheme

| Arcade Button Colours |  Hex code |
|-----------------------|:---------:|
| Blue                  | `#07AEE9` |
| White                 | `#FFFFFF` |

More information about the arcade game buttons and how they control the sorting process is given in [sorting.md](https://github.com/pieterberg/Smartie-Sorter/blob/main/documentation/sorting.md).

### 2.3. Smartie Colours

There are 8 different Smartie colours, namely: red, orange, yellow, green, blue, mauve, pink, and brown. Figure 4 presents the Smarties colour scheme.

<img src="https://github.com/pieterberg/Smartie-Sorter/blob/main/assets/design/colour_scheme/smartie_colours.png" alt="Smartie colours" width="70%">

Figure 4: The Smarties colour scheme

The hex codes for the Smarties colour scheme are provided in Table 3.

Table 3: The hex codes for the Smarties colour scheme

| Smartie Colours |  Hex code |
|-----------------|:---------:|
| Red             | `#FF5F5F` |
| Orange          | `#FAA161` |
| Yellow          | `#FFF77D` |
| Green           | `#20BF55` |
| Blue            | `#06ACE9` |
| Mauve           | `#A975FF` |
| Pink            | `#E599FF` |
| Brown           | `#A5703F` |

### 2.4. M&M Colours

There are 6 different M&M colours, namely: red, orange, yellow, green, blue, and brown. Figure 5 presents the official M&M colour scheme.

<img src="https://github.com/pieterberg/Smartie-Sorter/blob/main/assets/design/colour_scheme/m_and_m_colours.png" alt="M&M colours" width="70%">

Figure 5: The official M&M colour scheme

The hex codes for the official M&M colour scheme are provided in Table 4.

Table 4: The hex codes for the official M&M colour scheme

| Official M&M Colours |  Hex code |
|----------------------|:---------:|
| Red                  | `#C10D0C` |
| Orange               | `#E17324` |
| Yellow               | `#FFD101` |
| Green                | `#25B44B` |
| Blue                 | `#265EAB` |
| Brown                | `#6E4F30` |

## 3. Sorting Locations

Once sorted, the Smarties and M&M's are transferred to the acrylic Sorted Smarties Collector component. The Sorted Smarties Collector component contains 8 compartments, and the locations of the sorted Smarties and M&M's are dependent on the value of the `SORTING_MODE` property. 

The Smartie Sorter 3000 can operate in 2 different sorting modes, as shown by Table 5.

Table 5: Sorting modes and their descriptions

| Sorting Mode | Description                                                                          |
|--------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Uncollated   | Smarties and M&M's of the same colour are grouped together in the same compartment.  |
| Collated     | Consecutive Smarties and M&Ms of the same colour end up in consecutive compartments. |

More information about setting and viewing the value of the `SORTING_MODE` property is provided in [sorting.md](sorting.md).

### 3.1. Smartie Locations

Figure 6 provides the sorted Smartie locations. The uncollated Smarties locations correspond with the Smartie colour scheme that was presented in Figure 4.

<img src="../assets/design/sorting_locations/smartie_locations.png" alt="Smartie Locations" width="70%">

Figure 6: The uncollated and collated sorted Smartie locations

### 3.2. M&M Locations

Figure 6 provides the sorted M&M locations. The uncollated M&M locations correspond with the official M&M colour scheme that was presented in Figure 5. Since there are only 6 M&M colours, only the first 6 compartments of the Sorted Smarties Collector component are used.

<img src="../assets/design/sorting_locations/m_and_m_locations.png" alt="M&M Locations" width="70%">

Figure 7: The uncollated and collated sorted M&M locations
